# Explain a situation where you have made an ethical decision. Discuss how you weighed up the values involved in that decision, the decision you made, and how you reflect on the decision now.
In Year 13, I came out as gay to my close friends. It was a big decision as no one in my school was openly gay and I was worried on how it would affect my relationships or how people would treat me. I have known I was gay my entire life but never had people I was comfortable enough with to tell. As the end of high school was nearing, I had developed deep and meaningful relationships with a lot of my peers and felt like I could trust them enough to tell them. 

By hiding my sexuality for all these years, I had built up this idea that the fact of me being gay was such a massive burden to myself. I had convinced myself that by telling people who cared about me, it would shift some of that burden onto them - something I could never bring myself to do as my philosophy is my problems are my own and no one elses. It took a lot of introspection to teach myself that though my sexuality is my own business, it is not my own problem - in fact it's not a problem at all. 

By the end of year 13, I had finally come to accept myself. I realised that my whole life, I have been masking who I am to my friends and that if I continue allowing people to assume my sexuality, I would never be able to have a close connection with anyone. I decided that whatever my past is with my friends, it all meant nothing if they did not accept me for who I am [Important to note, I don't think sexuality is a 'person-defining' trait but the freedom of conversing with my friends about crushes and dates is something I always longed for and it was an important part of my idea of friendships]. I had decided that it was not selfish of me to come out to my friends, there was no 'passing of the burden', it was simply allowing them to know me more and whatever they decided to do from there was out of my control. 

Throughout the rest of the year, I slowly had the conversation with all of my friends without any big dramas - 99% of the time it was simply a short conversation. I was almost embarrased, after years of overthinking, it was a simple as a conversation. Now, I'm not downplaying the stress of being gay in today's society - i recognise this was a blessed outcome and friend's are usually the easiest step, but if I had done this years ago, I would not have been 18 learning how to be myself around others.

# Describe how your culture and the people around you have influenced your values and identity.
Growing up in a low-income neighbourhood - allowed me to be greatful for oppourutnities, work hard to give back to my family that made a lot of sacrifices, taught me how to be myself.

# Identify your strengths and how they will support you during your learning journey.
I have a vast background spanning across many different pathways 
-My previous work experience in retail, hospotality and customer service has given me a strong ability to communciate effectively with peers and those around me - something that will definately help me in the more social aspects of this course.
-My degree in Creative Technology taught me how to solve problems effectively and how to take different approaches to complex problems - this mindset is comparable to a 'programmers mindset'
-My upbringing has taught me about the importance of diversity and inclusion, I have noticed this is something I take into consideration in all that I do and helped me to shape my projects in an ethical and inclusive manner.

# Evaluate your limitations in terms of your learning and career development. How might these affect your learning journey?
I found that throughout my projects, I would often end up being the leader. Albeit, It was never really self-appointed and mostly was due to the fact that no one else wanted to do it but I often noticed that I would make a lot of decisions for a project and instead of being open to other ideas, would take that as an oppourtunity to convince them to use my solution. I have since tried to take a step-back in group projects and allow other people to share and lead.

# Share an example of when you were trying to work productively with others, but there was resistance or tension. Discuss strategies you tried at the time, how effective they were, and your reflections on what other strategies you would try now and why.
As I mentioned before, I had started to try and step-back in group projects - specifically in my last year. By doing so, I noticed that no one in my group really took the lead and I was still the one people would come to when they needed something to do. In the beggining it was fine but as the year progressed, I realised that it was not sustainable to keep working this way - for context I had my own parts of the project to work on, other coursework, was in the middle of rennovating and selling my family house, grieving the loss of family members, and had two part-time jobs. It's funny because I have always seen communication as one of my great skills but somehow it always falls short when it comes to my own feelings. I finally decided to bring up how I was feeling to the group to try and figure out how we can move forward. It turns out the solution was literally to just be open and actually talk about it, from there we had broken down the tasks that were left and the skills that we each had and used that to assign each person with their tasks. This whole dilemma really showed me the importance of communication within a group project and though personal matters dont need to be shared in a working environment, they are a justified reason to hit pause and reassess the timeline. 